# tiy-java-gradle-template

This repository contains a template Spring Boot application using Gradle and Postgres. This application is configured in such a way that it can be easily deployed to Heroku.

## Usage

These instructions assume you've already created a Heroku account, installed the `heroku` command line application, and configured it correctly.  

1. Fork and/or clone this repository.  
2. In the cloned directory run `heroku app:create`. This will create a new application in Heroku and add a remote into your git configuration named "heroku".
3. Create a database and install the Heroku Postgres addon by running `heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql --app {app name}`. Replace `{app name}` with the name of your application in Heroku. For example, "enigmatic-escaprpment-12345".
4. Run `git push heroku master` to deploy your application to Heroku.

## Development

This template has been configured to use a different configuration properties files when running in your local development environment vs. Heroku. 

 * **application.properties** This file contains your development configuration. It assumes you're using a Postgres database named "example" running on your local host. You can easily setup Postgres for a Mac by [downloading and installing Postgres.app](http://postgresapp.com/). Run it, click on the elephant in your menu bar, open psql, and run `create database example`.
 
 * **application-heroku.properties** This file contains configuration for running the app on Heroku. 

## Logs

You can and should use `heroku logs -t` to "tail" (continuously watch) your logs when the application is starting. I like to keep two terminal windows open, one for general use, including `git push heroku master`, and one where I watch the Heroku log output. This is so much nicer than trying to use Heroku's online log viewer.

## Project name
 
This project is named "template" throughout. If you want to change the name of the jar file generated you can do this (but don't have to):

* Change `baseName = 'template'` to an appropriate name in the build.gradle file. This changes the name of the JAR file that will be generated by Gradle.
* Change the Procfile so that it uses the correct JAR file name now. By default it specifies `build/libs/template-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`. You'll want to change `template` to match what you set in the previous bullet point. Also, if you change your version numbers you'll want to update the JAR file's name accordingly.

You should be able to name your project's classes whatever you like.   
 